# COVID-19 Analysis for 2020-06-21

<b>Purpose</b>

I started this project on 22 Apr 2020. The original purpose of this project was to analyze the [Johns Hopkins University COVID-19 data](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19) and to see if there were any correlations between opening states early (e.g. Texas on 20 Apr, etc) with an increased rate of confirmed COVID-19 cases (and subsequently, COVID-19 deaths).

As of this writing (21 June 2020, two months later), it is clear that states that opened early (e.g. TX, FL, AZ, AR, etc) have had a dramatic increase in confirmed cases with a very strong positive correlation to the date of reopening.

Now that this has been confirmed/substantiated, my new focus for this project will be to track and publish state confirmed and death data. The will be published on a ~weekly basis and kept in the Graphs folder of this repo.

The link to my main [COVID-19 repo is here](https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19).

<b>Facebook Post This Week</b>

I added an exciting new feature!!!...well, at least exciting for me because I finally added automatic exporting for all my graphs (which has been a manual process all this time). It took me all week to perfect, but now I can finally save myself 20 minutes of work every time I publish ("This is the way...of the coder").

What's that mean for you? It means that if I didn't post your favorite state, just let me know because I have them all, I just don't post them all. Or you can go to the link to my repo here and find your state: https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19/tree/master/Graphs/20200621

Please let me know if you have any requests!

<b>Analysis</b>

The most surprising thing to me this week is that large gatherings of protestors in places like Colorado, Minnesota, New York, and Washington DC did not see huge spikes in confirmed COVID-19 cases. The first protests began on Thursday, 28 May (noted with a vertical dashed line).

In global trends, this week is mostly like last week: Argentina, Chile, South Korea, Philippines, Sweden, and the US are up; Germany and Japan are ever so slightly higher; New Zealand added about 5 active cases; Italy is down.

The US has 1,517,940 active cases, up by 115,456 from last week's total of 1,402,484.

For US states:
Confirmed daily COVID cases continue to trend upward in: AZ, CA, FL, GA, and TX<br>
Daily confirmed cases are trending down in CO, IA, IL, MI, NY, VA, WI<br>
Daily deaths increased in AZ, CA, FL, GA, and TX<br>
Deaths decreased in CO, IA, IL, MI, NY, TX, VA, and WI
