# COVID-19 Analysis for 2020-07-05

<b>Purpose</b>

I started this project on 22 Apr 2020. The original purpose of this project was to analyze the [Johns Hopkins University COVID-19 data](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19) and to see if there were any correlations between opening states early (e.g. Texas on 20 Apr, etc) with an increased rate of confirmed COVID-19 cases (and subsequently, COVID-19 deaths).

It is evident that states that opened early (e.g. TX, FL, AZ, AR, etc) have had a dramatic increase in confirmed cases with a very strong positive correlation to the date of reopening.

Now that this has been confirmed/substantiated, my new focus for this project will be to track and publish state confirmed and death data. The will be published on a weekly basis and kept in the Graphs folder of this repo.

The link to my main [COVID-19 repo is here](https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19).

<b>Facebook Post This Week</b>

A new feature I added this week is the addition of a "Net New Active Cases" plot in the US daily graphs.

I wish I could say that we went into the July 4th holiday with great news about COVID; however, while I can't say that exactly, I can say that the data shows some amount of promise.

First, the bad news: COVID cases in many states have spiked significantly this week with some states (FL in particular) having a record amount of per-day confirmed cases. This could be due to the increase in the number of COVID tests being administered (yay!), relaxing of quarantine and reopening by state governments, as well as local cultures being cavalier about wearing masks or more intimate social gatherings because it's summer and....well...'murica.

Now the good news: while confirmed cases have been increasing, the number of deaths doesn't seem to be following too closely. Perhaps this is because hospitals are able to treat patients and we have, to some degree, flattened the curve, but it can possibly also mean that the wave of deaths is still pending due to a lag between one contracting the virus to one's death from it.

It is, however, notable that states that tend to have lax mask-wearing policies or cultures are the ones with a continuing upward trend, while the converse is true.

Annabelle and I have witnessed first-hand the stark difference in mask-wearing cultures between Colorado and Texas and it's a little scary! Enough so that upon returning home to Colorado from Texas this week, we went ahead and got COVID tested just to be sure (results pending).

If I didn't post your favorite state, just let me know because I have them all, I just don't post them all. Or you can go to the link to my repo here and find your state: https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19/tree/master/Graphs/20200705

Please let me know if you have any requests!

<b>Analysis:</b>

There hasn't been any dramatic shifts up or down in the US since last week. Essentially what happened last week is still happening this week (i.e. the states with increasing cases are still going up, the states that were flat are still flat, the states with decreasing cases are still decreasing).

The US has 1,815,435 active cases, a net gain of 110,131 from last week's total of 1,705,304 -- a 6.5% increase from last week's total active cases (not good, but better than last week's gains).

In global trends:
Argentina, Japan, the Philippines, Sweden, and the US are up; staying within the same range as last week are Chile, Germany, South Korea, and New Zealand; and Italy continues its slow glide down to their levels in early March.
