# COVID-19 Analysis for 2020-06-28

<b>Purpose</b>

I started this project on 22 Apr 2020. The original purpose of this project was to analyze the [Johns Hopkins University COVID-19 data](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19) and to see if there were any correlations between opening states early (e.g. Texas on 20 Apr, etc) with an increased rate of confirmed COVID-19 cases (and subsequently, COVID-19 deaths).

As of this writing (28 June 2020, two months later), it is clear that states that opened early (e.g. TX, FL, AZ, AR, etc) have had a dramatic increase in confirmed cases with a very strong positive correlation to the date of reopening.

Now that this has been confirmed/substantiated, my new focus for this project will be to track and publish state confirmed and death data. The will be published on a ~weekly basis and kept in the Graphs folder of this repo.

The link to my main [COVID-19 repo is here](https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19).

##<b>Facebook Post This Week</b>

This week, at the request of Mike Montecillo, I added a bar graph of daily confirmed cases and deaths (in a similar format as the state bar graphs that you've come to know and love).

Remember, if I didn't post your favorite state, just let me know because I have them all, I just don't post them all. Or you can go to the link to my repo here and find your state: https://github.com/heyjcm/covid-19/tree/master/Graphs/20200621

Please let me know if you have any requests!

##<b>Analysis:</b>

This week saw an increase in many states. Extreme examples are Florida, Arizona, and Texas, the last of which caused Gov Abbott of Texas to shut down all bars as of noon Friday, 26 June, and scale back dine-in capacity at all restaurants from 75% to 50% starting Monday, 29 June. Texas was one of the very first states to reopen (and the impetus for me starting this study two months ago when it first opened state parks on 20 Apr). It seems that in so doing, Texas is now the first state to regress to some pre-reopening policies.

In global trends:
Argentina, the Philippines, Sweden, and the US are up; staying within the same range as last week are Chile, Germany, Japan, South Korea, and New Zealand; and Italy continues its slow glide down to their levels in early March.

The US has 1,705,304 active cases, up by 187,364 from last week's total of 1,517,940 -- a 12.3% increase from last week's total active cases (not good).

For US states:
Confirmed daily COVID cases continue to trend upward in: AZ, CA, FL, GA, and TX<br>
Daily confirmed cases are trending down or flat in CO, IA, IL, MI, NY, VA, WI<br>
Daily deaths increased in AZ and TX<br>
Deaths decreased or stayed flat in CA, CO, FL, GA, IA, IL, MI, NY, VA, and WI
